Squid:
  it is a popular open source caching and proxy server that runs on unix OS,
  it has features like:
    1. Cacheing web pages
    2. filtering
    3. Creating logs
Introduction to linux hardening security and firewalls:
 it is the process of strengthening the security measures of the linux system
 to make it harder for attackers to gain control of the system
 some basic hardening techniques include:
 1. Disabling unnecessary servies and applications using the systemcl command and 
  sevice manager.
 2.Keeping the system up-to-date with security patches and
  updates. that means running the upgrade command on linux. 
  Remember to update the kernel aswell.
 3.Configuring and using a firewall to control network traffic. ther are several available
  to suit ur needs such as ufw and firewalld
 4.Implementing strong passwords. this includes that we set rules such as length, 
  complexity, age, and history.
 5.Configuring file system permissions to restrict access to sensitive files 
  and directories.
 6.Implementing user management best practices, such as limiting user 
   privileges and monitoring user activity, implementing strong password policies,
   monitoring user activity,conducting regular security training
 7.Using tool:
    Zeus:
    Zeus is a tool to perform a quick security scan of an AWS environment. 
    It helps to find missing security controls, so additional system hardening 
    measures can be applied to systems.Zeus runs a set of tests that individually 
    look at how an AWS environment is configured. Within Identity and Access Management 
    (IAM) it looks at several aspects regarding the usage of a root user, multi-factor 
    authentication, and the password policy. It looks at common best practices that also 
    apply to Linux systems in general, complemented by AWS specific settings.
    advantages:
    1. written in bash
    2. source code available
    disadvantages:
    1. NO releases available on github.
    Lynis:
    Lynis is a battle-tested security tool for systems running Linux, macOS, or Unix-based operating system. 
    It performs an extensive health scan of your systems to support system hardening and compliance testing. 
    The project is open source software with the GPL license and available since 2007.
    Advantages:
    1.Much faster
    2.No pollution of log files
    3.Much lower risk of disruption to business services
    4.Host-based scans provide a more in-depth audit
    nixarmor:
    advantages:
    1.written in shell 
    2.source code available
    disadvantages: 
    1.Not ready for production 
    2. no updates.
  SOme competitors:
  1.JShielder
  2.OpenSCAP
  
